Ryan O'Halloran - CSE 20311
Lab 4 report.txt

From the user's perspective, ndfootball.c is a rather simple program. Upon running, the user is presented with 5 options for interpreting Notre Dame's football record through the years. These are: 1. Display seasons with a win percentage at or above specified value 2. Display seasons with at least 'x' wins 3. Display seasons with at least 'x' losses 4. Display record for specified season and 5. Exit. If the user doesn't enter one of these 5 choices, they are met with an error message and returned to the selection prompt. After the user has selected any of 1-4, they are then prompted with another input depending on which question they selected. The program outputs either the seasons in which a specified condition is true, or the record for a given season. The program continues to run and take input until the user selects to exit.

The program works internally through a central while loop within main. The loop continues to operate until the isRunning boolean is set to false, which happens after the user selects to exit. The wins and losses arrays are stored as global variables, so they don't have to be passed into any functions. Outside of main, the program utilizes a few different functions. The first function simply finds the size of the wins array (and makes the assumption that the losses array is always the same size). This function then returns the array size to a variable in main, which is then passed into the remaining functions. The next function prints out the options available to the user and prints text prompting the user for their choice, after which a scanf statement in main reads in. The other four functions each correspond to the options presented to the user. The win_percent function takes in the user's desired win percentage and loops through the arrays, calculates each season's win percentage, and returns to the user all seasons at or above that win percentage. The x_wins and x_losses functions each loop through the wins/losses arrays respectively and print all seasons with more wins/losses than numLosses, inputted by the user. The final function, season_record, locates the season specified by the user and displays the wins and losses for that season. All functions account for invalid user inputs by using if-else statements.

I verified the programs='s accuracy by testing each of the options and comparing their output to the Wikipedia page with all of ND's records over the years. For all my times re-testing the output against the Wikipedia, the results matched up, verifying that all cases of my program are accurate.